#15 schema documentation application group (#25)
openmsupply/application-manager-server: documentation/Database-Schema-Application.md

# Database Schema Application

![Database Schema](images/database-schema-application.png)

> ## Tables description: Application

Reviewer: Maybe "Database area: Application" (or whatever you ended up using for #24 )

### Application instance

> The application has all the visualisation and logic defined in the <b>application template</b> [(described in Database Schema Template)](Database-Schema-Template.md). When the Applicant clicks to apply for a application type (aka template) a new instance of one application is created for them. The Applicant user can make changes until submitting the application to be reviewed.

Reviewer: Typo: **an** application (not "a")

Author: Well spotted! I keep getting this wrong. : O

> * <b>application</b>

Reviewer: Prefer **\*\*markdown\*\*** formatting rather than HTML tags (same as #24)

> * <b>application</b>

Reviewer: Also -- see [my comment](https://github.com/openmsupply/application-manager-server/pull/24#discussion_r491740184) on #24 -- applies to all in list.

Representation of the application instance. All nested elements are accessible via joined tables and can be created or queried in the same call using the GraphQL engine.
The `template_id` links to the template used to display all sections and elements (questions) to the user.
The `user_id` links to the Applicant user that created this application.
The `serial` is a number used to display the application number to users. 

> The `name` will be deduced by the template name + user + company names.

Reviewer: Ah, okay!
We can do this in the front-end, but do you think it'd be better to write a postGres function to fill this field automatically?

Author: Yes, for sure! I'll start a document where we keep the possible useful functions to be added to postGres.

The `is_active` is set to `'true'` for all applications that are still in the review process. 

> The `is_active` is set to `'false'` for applications that have finished the review process, have expire or were withdrawn by the Applicant. 

Reviewer: Typo: "have **expired**"

> The `trigger` is updated everytime the application has changes done by users or a scheduler. The trigger would be one of the options: `'onApplicationCreate'`, `'onApplicationSubmit'`, `'onApplicationSave'`, `'onApplicationWithdrawn'`, `'onReviewStart'`, `'onReviewEditComment'`, `'onReviewSave'`, `'onReviewAssign'`, `'onApprovalSubmit'`, `'onScheduleTime'`.

Reviewer: Agghh -- not more places to maintain the list of Triggers 🤣

See my comment on #24 -- maybe best to just say "See here for detailed list of available triggers" with a link to the Triggers & Actions page.

The `outcome` is either `'Pending'`, `'Approved'`, `'Rejected'`. The application is 'Pending' during the review process, each stage will store also the outcome, so it will only be updated to here once the review process is finished resulting in either 'Approved' or 'Rejected'.
<b>To be considered:</b>

>    * The `unique_identifier` is a new field. What is it used for? Should is replace the `serial`?

Reviewer: Yes, indeed, we certainly don't need a `serial no`, a `unique_id` _and_ an `id`!!

The idea was to allow the country to give each application a "label"/"code" according to their local style/convention. Maybe "id_string"? I dunno, pick one I guess?

Author: But wouldn't we use the `serial` field for that. I guess we could not use the serial and just have one `id_string` or `number` or `unique_identifier` and use an action to set this value. By default it can be a very simple thing and the country using it can add more specific stuff to the `identifierGenerator`.

>    * An application with Draft should be flagged as `is_active`?

Reviewer: Yes, I think so. Because the main filter we'll be applying at the front end (by default) will limit the display to Active applications, so you'd want the Drafts in that, I'd say.

Author: Cool. I'll add this to the explanation of `is_active` field. Thanks

* <b>application_section</b>
Sections of the application that contain some elements. This is exactly the same as the `template_section`.
The `application_id` links to the application.
The `template_section_id` links to the template.

> <b>To be considered: Why so we need an `application_section` and not `application_element`. We should use the same logic for both.</b>

Reviewer: Yes, good point. `application_response` (which is the equivalent of `template_element`) should be related to `application_section` rather than `application` to keep consistency between Template and Application.

You want to go ahead and change it, or will you make a new issue?

Author: By what was discussed in today's meeting we will keep as it is.

* <b>application_stage_history</b>
There is one or more stages per application template. Each one is defined by `template_stage`. The application stage history will keep records for when the application changed to each particular stage (previously defined for this application template).
The `application_id` links to the application.
The `stage_id` links to the template stage, which will have the `name` and number of this stage.
The `time_created` defined when this stage was created.
The `is_current` is set to `'true'` while this is the current stage of this application. Otherwise is set to `'false'`.
<b>To be considered: When the application review is not in progress anymore do we keep the last `is_active` stage as `'true'`?</b>

* <b>application_status_history</b>
For each stage of the application it can have associated statuses. The application status history will keep records for when the application changed to each particular status of a stage. 
The `application_stage_history_id` links to the application stage (and the application itself).

> The `status` is either `'Draft'`, `'Withdrawn'`, `'Submitted'`, `'Changes Required'`, `'Re-submitted'`, `'Completed'` and self-explanatory,

Reviewer: I think you can lose the "and self-explanatory" from the end. If it's self-explanatory (which it is), why explain that it's self-explanatory? Just let it explain itself -- it's self-explanatory after all! 🤣

Author: hahahhaha. Yes. I agree. Don't need to explain the inexplainable.

The `time_created` defined when this status of a stage was created.
The `is_current` is set to `'true'` while this is the current status of this application stage. Otherwise is set to `'false'`.

### Question response

> For every new answer that the Applicant give to each resquested elements (questions) in the application a new <b>application response</b> is created. The Applicant user can make changes to responses until submitting or re-submitting the application to be reviewed. The 

Reviewer: Typo: "requested"

Reviewer: Also, an orphan "The" at the end of that line. 🤷‍♂️

* <b>application_reponse</b>
The `template_question_id` links to the template element, which defines what is the question and how to render in the application.

> The `application_id` links to the application.

Reviewer: And as discussed above, this with become `application_section_id` if we change it.

The `value` is what the Applicant user enter as a response.
The `time_created` defined when this response was created.
More detailed description of response coming soon: `value`.
<b>To be considered:</b>

>   * Should we change `template_question_id` to `template_element_id` to keep consistent with the table name?

Reviewer: Yes, I think so.

>   * How can we flag a question to be editable by the user when Changes are required if it's only defined per template in `template_element`? Considering what was also flagged in the `application_section` we might need another `application_question` table to deal with that.

Reviewer: Wouldn't this be defined by `review_response.review_decision`? If that value is "Observations" (and the associated Review has been submitted by reviewer), then this question become editable by Applicant.

Author: Yes. As discussed in today's meeting. We would be using a SQL view or function to deduce this from the review decisions. 👍

The `template_id` links to the template used to display all sections and elements (questions) to the user.

The `user_id` links to the Applicant user that created this application.

The `serial` is a number used to display the application number to users.

The `name` will be deduced by the template name + user + company names.

The `is_active` is set to `'true'` for all applications that are still in the review process or are in Draft status.

The `is_active` is set to `'false'` for applications that have finished the review process, have expired or were withdrawn by the Applicant.

The `trigger` is updated everytime the application has changes done by users or a scheduler. See more about [triggers](Triggers-and-Actions.md)

The `outcome` is either `'Pending'`, `'Approved'`, `'Rejected'`. The application is 'Pending' during the review process, each stage will store also the outcome, so it will only be updated to here once the review process is finished resulting in either 'Approved' or 'Rejected'.

**To be considered:**

- The `unique_identifier` is a new field. What is it used for? Should is replace the `serial`?

### application_section

> Sections of the application. It will point to the `template_section` that stores all the elements (questions) to be displayed. We required to have this records to have those associated to reviews, which are done per section of each application.

Reviewer: > We required to have this records to have those associated to reviews

Can't quite make sense of this. Looks like you might have left too many words in. ;)

Author: Hahaha The classic too many words for a sentence. You know that Tolstoi really cared about that. All his sentences are well thought to have the minimum number of words required. : )

The `application_id` links to the application.

The `template_section_id` links to the template.

### application_stage_history

There is one or more stages per application template. Each one is defined by `template_stage`. The application stage history will keep records for when the application changed to each particular stage (previously defined for this application template).

The `application_id` links to the application.

The `stage_id` links to the template stage, which will have the `name` and number of this stage.

> The `time_created` defined when this stage was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `time_created` records when this stage was created.
```

### application_section

> Sections of the application. It will point to the `template_section` that stores all the elements (questions) to be displayed. We required to have this records to have those associated to reviews.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sections of the application. It will point to the `template_section` that stores all the elements (questions) to be displayed. This table is required as it provides a way to associate reviews (which are per-section) to specific application sections.
```
